[MUSIC PLAYING]
RICK LEVINE: The three
astrological water signs are
Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces.
Astrologically, the element
of water represents emotion.
It's feelings.
Water, like
feelings, has memory.
We talk about the
memory of water.
Feelings require some
connection to the past.
It's different, though,
for each of the signs,
what we do with those feelings.
In the Jungian framework, water
also represented feelings.
The fire, earth, air, water
represented intuitive thinking,
feeling, and perceiving.
Water has to do
with the emotions
that we have based upon our
perceptions or our analysis.
The first of the three
water signs is Cancer.
And Cancer is a cardinal, or
season-starting, water sign.
Cancer is the sign of the crab.
Cancer is just Latin for crab.
The distinguishing features
of the crab are one,
it has a hard outer shell.
And two, it has large pinchers.
Those large pictures prevent it
from running forward very fast.
And anyone who has studied crabs
knows that they can run faster
sideways or backwards
than forwards, just
like the people that you know
who are Cancer sun signs.
The other thing
about the pinchers
is that when they grab on to
something they do not let go.
It's been said that when a
crab reaches into a crevasse
and it picks up a piece of food,
if the food is so large that it
then can't pull
its claw back out,
it'll pull its arm
right out of its body.
Crabs do not let go.
The tenacity of emotion is
what's significant in crabs.
It's the crab that will
hold on to the past.
Cancers are associated
with home and family.
And home and family are our
associations with our past.
Our family are our blood ties.
And the homes that
we all live in
are like our hard outer shell.
And when we're inside
our home with our family,
that's when we feel
safe and secure.
The other piece of importance
about the anatomy of the crab
is the hard outer shell.
And this has to do with
the fact that Cancers
do not have backbones.
Now that sounds awful
to us vertebrates,
but the fact of the matter
is that the exoskeleton
is what protects the crab.
And this is the crab
that will find-- not only
has a hard outer shell-- but
will find the hard outer shell
of an animal who's not using it
because it's afraid of getting
washed away by the tides.
And it's so afraid, that it'll
then take that larger, harder
outer shell, and it'll
drag it into a cave
or under a rock, because crabs
live in the most changing,
dynamic, and nutrient-rich
place on the planet,
the intertidal zone, where
the waters are always moving.
And the waters of emotion
are always moving.
And this is why crabs need their
hard outer shell because they
can be so sensitive to the
changing emotional tides,
that they can actually
hide their feelings better
than any other
sign in the zodiac.
Well, except for maybe
Scorpio sometimes.
And Scorpio is the
fixed water sign.
Scorpio does not flow like
the crab's feelings of flows.
Scorpio holds on to
feelings and develops
then into great intensity.
If you look at the
Scorpion, it takes
all of the energy of its
body and it pushes it
further and further
into its tail,
where it becomes very poisonous.
And that energy is held in
position, ready to strike when
the scorpion on is fearful.
Scorpios, perhaps more than
any other sign of the zodiac,
is associated with intensity.
And because it's a water
sign, it's associated
with emotional intensity.
Scorpio can take a feeling and
hold onto it like no one else.
And not so much holding on to
the past, but holding onto it,
Scorpio loves revenge.
Scorpio loves mystery
because it's the feelings
that are not shown.
And you see the
power of feelings
sometimes becomes greater when
the feelings aren't expressed.
And Scorpio can
take those feelings
and develop power and
intensity from them
by pushing them so
far away that they
look like they don't exist.
But the fact of the matter is,
that Scorpio is the only sign
in the zodiac that
actually has three animal
totems associated
with it, the scorpion,
the eagle, and the dove.
And herein lies the
secret important thing
about the feelings of the
fixed sign of Scorpio,
and that is when you hold
onto a feeling, it transforms.
And it transforms, first in
the eagle, where the eagle can
actually hold onto
its feelings and soar
higher than any other creature.
And then as it
learns how to deal
with its passions
and its intensity
and its need for
revenge, the eagle
then transforms into the
dove that is 100% peaceful
and could not kill at all.
And so in Scorpio,
we have this idea
of the transformation
on emotions
from holding them still.
In the third and final
water sign, Pisces,
we have the fish that
live in the water.
And the water here
represents not only the seas,
bu the seas of consciousness.
We are each and every one of
us fish with the same eternal
waters flowing through us.
We all have crystallized out of
the great ocean here on earth
and eventually all
life and all solidness,
all crystalline structure,
will wash back into earth.
Pisces represents that
spiritual component
of the universal
consciousness or the universal
sees that we all come
to through birth,
and at death we
all wash back into.
Pisces people tend to be very
sensitive to other people's
feelings.
There's a difficulty
in telling well,
is that my feeling
or your feeling,
because Pisces often has a
difficult time with boundaries.
In fact, Pisces are attracted
to anything in life that helps
them lose those firm
boundaries, whether they're
religious beliefs or
spiritual practices,
or even illusions or delusions
or fantasies or movies,
these are all things that
Pisces might be associated.
In each of the three water
signs, feelings are involved,
but they're involved
differently.
In Cancer, they're
personal feelings
based upon insecurity often
and the need to protect them.
In Scorpio, they're
based upon rigidness,
upon fixed feelings, that then
transform into something else.
And in Pisces, they're based
upon the universal feelings
that we all share.
[MUSIC PLAYING]